

--- PAGE 1 ---

 
CS402.3  Coursework 20 25/2026 1 
 
 
 
Computer Graphics and 
Visualization  
CS402.3  
 
 
Coursework  
2025-2026 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Submission Deadline:  TBA 
Coursework Type:  Group Assignment  
Module Leader : Dr. Rasika Ranaweera  
E-mail: ranaweera.r@nsbm. ac.lk 
  

--- PAGE 2 ---

 
CS402.3  Coursework 20 25/2026 2 Coursework  
 
This coursework for CS402.3 is worth 30% of the module marks and contains 
two parts: Prototype  and a report . The prototype is  basically a working 
software and the  report should  contain approaches, screenshots , testing 
results, discussio n, and  most importantly  individual contribution  of the group 
members . 
 
1. Scenario  
 
You are asked to create a rock-paper -scissor game1 which one can play with 
a computer/smart phone. When the user says “Rock, Paper, Scissor, Shoot ” 
and pose a gesture with fingers, your application should also pose a gesture. 
The general rule is the rock beats scissor, scissor beats paper, paper beats 
rock, and same gesture is treated as a tie.  
 
 
 
I. Processing  
Your program preferably written in Python language should take a photo of 
the human hand gesture, remove background, and identify the gesture posed.  
Note : While the program is running you need to show the progress of the 
image processing. Such as greyscale,  thresholding,  binarization, etc.  
$ python rps.py 
 
1 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rock_paper_scissors  


--- PAGE 3 ---

 
CS402.3  Coursework 20 25/2026 3  
II. Visualization  
You are required to display the outlines, 
gestures posed, and the gesture posed by 
the application . The game should be easy to 
play, attractive, error free, and professional. 
You may be as creative as possible.  
 
You may also extend your application to the 
next level by Rock, Paper, Scissors, Lizard, 
Spock2 an extension from the popular TV 
series The Big Bang Theory3. 
 
2.  Grouping  
 
You are required to form groups of five/six  
members  each playing different role in the 
project,  but everybody is contributed to the 
main concerns: image processing and 
visualization.  The report should contain 
individual contribution of each about a page  
including technologies and coding.  Everyone 
must play the game and add evidence.  
You must also properly maintain a GitHub repository ; all commits must be 
properly done with meaningful messages. Individuals should add self -tracking 
summary to the individual contribution in the report.  
 
3. Deliverables  
I. Prototype  
The prototype should be a working solution where one can input different 
images  and get a summary . 
 
II. Report  
The report should  have a comprehensive discussion about what types of 
image processing concepts were used, why they were used, screenshots of 
all the image processing steps  at each step , testing results  for the given input 
images , discussion about challenges faced, and individual contribution.  The 
front page should contain group member names , roles,  indices, subject title , 
and code.  
 
2 https://bigbangtheory.fandom.com/wiki/Rock,_Paper,_Scissors,_Lizard,_Spock  
3 https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0898266/  


--- PAGE 4 ---

 
CS402.3  Coursework 20 25/2026 4 You are required to prepare the report using standard references, figures, 
tables, and equations. Each member must explain his/her contribution  
with a minimum of one page; one can use illustrations for explanations, then 
paragraphs need to be extended.   
4. Assessment Criteria  
Category  Criteria  LOs  Marks  
Prototype  
(Group)  • Quality of the program (coding styles, comments, 
structure, naming conventions , testing results, etc.)  
• Executable program  
• Use of image processing libraries  and techniques  LO3 50% 
Report  
(Group)  
 • Screenshots of the entire step by step process  
• Discussion about all image processing related 
technologies used  LO1 
LO2 35% 
Contribution 
(Individual)  • Individual contribution  
• GitHub history  LO2 15% 
5. Submission Type  
The coursework should be  uploaded to the NLEARN  as a two submissions  
the prototype and the report : 
• Prototype should be a zip file  
• Report should be a MS Word file  
 
